OK so in this project we're going to be building a photo gallery theme for wordpress.
Now before we get into anything that has to do with wordpress I want to just create a layout in each
team.
All right.
And as I said in the introduction we're going to be using the W3 C Ss C as a framework.
All right so first thing we're going to do is create a new folder and let's call this and call it photogenic
underscore HVM now.
OK.
And then in there we're going to create a couple of files we're going to create index each team.
We're going to create a style dot CSSA file
and we're going to have a folder called images.
OK.
And then one more thing we're going to have another aged him age to all file that's going to represent
the single image once we click on one of the images in the gallery it'll take us here cells called a
single HDMI out.
OK.
So let's open up the index page with Sublime Text or of course whatever you'd like.
And we're going to just get a base.
Each team will structure here.
And the title will say photogenic.
Now since we're using this W3 CSSA framework we have to include that style sheet.
So you're just going to use the CD and hear souls say Link we're l equals stylesheet.
And then a Tref is going to be HTP and is going to be from the W three schools website.
I want to go to slash lib and then slash W3 dot CSX.
We also want to include our own CSSA file
select style Dotsie SS.
OK no that's really all we need in the head.
So next thing we want to do is let's create the header.
OK so we're going to use each five header tag and some of the stuff might change and once we are actually
building the Wordpress theme just to adapt to the Wordpress conventions.
So this hetter we're going to give this class actually if we take a look at the documentation here for
the framework and we go to containers which should have headers radios is what we want.
I want it we want this.
Just going to copy that.
Put that there.
All right.
So let's just make sure that everything is actually working so far.
So we'll open this with chrome and there we go.
So we have our heading now we're going to want to do is we want to use the grid system.
All right so if you use this or if you've used bootstrap or foundation or any one of those C Ss HTL
frameworks then you know what the grid system is basically it gives us 12 columns across.
Now we can set certain divs or certain elements to span across a certain amount of columns.
All right so if we go to our documentation and we go to the grid you can see here the syntax we need
which is this.
So what I'm going to do is just copy this row and we're going to put this right in the head or I'm just
going to replace this for now.
Let's push that over.
And then what we want to do is for this div here we're going to change this to l 9 this is for large
9 so if it's a certain if the browser is stretched a certain with this will kick in and then medium
.
This will be if it's if it's smaller but we're going to just put the same for both nine columns and
then this one here will be three.
All right.
We can get rid of these paragraphs inside of them and this one is going to have the heading.
So this will be an one and this is a photogenic.
And I just want to put a span around the word photo because we're going to make that a different color
.
OK so that's the heading and then on the other side we're going to have our input and that's going to
have its own class of W3 input.
OK we'll give it a type of text and then we'll give it a placeholder.
And that will save search.
All right so let's take a look at that.
OK.
Alex good.
I do want to bring the search down so let's go to our CSSA file
which is right here.
Let's see what I want to do.
We're going to say Hetter input.
Let's do Marjan talk.
I'll save 15 pixels.
OK.
There we go.
So that's our hetter.
So next we want the sidebar and then the main area.
So we're going to use the grid for that as well.
So what I'll do is copy what we have here.
We're going to put that down under the header.
OK.
Now as far as the columns we're going to just switch these.
This one is going to be three and this one is going to be 9 K because we want the sidebar on the left
and then we can just get rid of the content inside.
OK so four of the three call them we're just going to have a list of categories so let's do ul.
And we're going to give it a class of W3 ul.
And then inside that we'll have allies
with links
.
This one will say nature.
And these are just going to be categories.
Let's
say people and I'll say abstract.
OK so let's save that.
Take a look.
OK so there's our categories.
Now we want the background to be black and the text to be white.
So it's going our style sheet and just add some coarse styles here.
So first thing will do the body and we'll give it a background of black and color of white.
Right.
And then for the links I want to take I'll take the underline away so we're going to see text decoration
.
None for our allies.
I don't want to have any bullets.
So we're going to say list style none
for the input we want the text to be a dark color.
So it's a color.
And that should be good.
Let's save that.
And there we go.
Now for the main area we're going to put another grid inside of this one.
All right so we're going to need three images in a row.
OK so what we'll do is let's grab
this.
Again this row with the with the columns.
And we're going to put this inside of you one of the inside of this div.
All right so I'll paste that in and then get rid of the content OK and then we're going to change both
of these two four.
All right.
And then we're going to need one more so I'm going to copy that sat in.
OK so that'll be three columns so we need an image inside of there and then also the this the text underneath
.
Now as far as the images go you should have those in your project files.
I'm going to put them in right now.
OK so these are just some black and white images.
I'll show you them real quick K and they're just named one through 6 J peg.
All right so let's go back to our code editor
and what we'll do
is let's put in our image tag and we're going to point to each one so this will be source and then that's
going to go to images slash 1 dot pig.
All right.
And then we also have a paragraph underneath which I'm just going to put some simple text in.
OK so we're going to need to do this for all of our columns
K and then we're just going to change the number here to this one to three.
So that should give us 3 across.
OK it's not seeing them let's see images source
.
There we go.
OK.
Now what we need to do is set the width of these images to 100 percent of their content because right
now they're there busting out of their container.
So in the style sheet we're going to say image and we're going to set the width to 100 percent.
All right let's see what that looks like.
OK.
So that made them all fit nice and neat.
So in order for us to get more we're going to have to put in some more rows so what I'll do is I'm just
going to copy these four divs.
I'm sorry.
These three divs.
Will copy those and just put that right underneath.
And then we'll just change the numbers of the file names here to 4 5 and 6.
Ok so now we have six images now down at the bottom we just want a simple footer.
So let's go down there and we're going to go after the last div here and then say footer and then just
put in a paragraph we'll say photogenic and we'll do a coffee right.
Single single symbol 2016.
All right.
So let's save that.
And then in the stylesheet we're going to say.
And we're going to do a text align Center put a margin top of 40 pixels in a border top gray and then
solid one pixel.
All right.
And for let's see
I want to center the text here as well.
So what we're going to do is with each div with the four columns also going to put a class of pick.
All right just so each picture div has its own its own class.
OK.
And then we'll do is in here we'll say the dot pick and let's say text align Center.
All right.
So we'll save that.
And now we have our text aligned we also have our footer.
So in the next part what we'll do is we will implement the animation and we'll also create our single
daughter each DML page